docs/safety.md, before:

---
title: Guides
description: Comprehensive Tutorials & Guides for Hypixel and Minecraft
---

This guide explores the how you (yes, you!) can use to protect yourself from threats and malware and have a safe experience on hypixel!


## Part 1: Hypixel network
These threats are not limited to a single gamemode but network-wide considerations every hypixel player should understand.

### 1.1 Third-Party Links

A primary attack source is through malicious links shared in chat or Discord.

-   **The "Why":** Malicious actors share links to:
    -   **Phish** for your login credentials or personal data.
    -   **Distribute malware** (viruses, keyloggers, RATs) disguised as "free mods" or "giveaway sites."
    -   **Advertise** black-market services (like coin selling) which are against Hypixel's rules.
::: tip **Hypixel's Protective Filter**
 To protect users, Hypixel automatically blocks most external links in public and private chat. If a user is intentionally **bypassing this filter** (using spaces, special characters, or misleading text), it is a massive red flag and a direct violation of the rules. Use `/report` immediately.
:::
---

### 1.2 The Discord Minefield

Discord is a central part of the community but is also riddled with scams.

-   **Unofficial Servers:** Any Discord server outside the **official Hypixel Discord** is an unofficial, third-party service. Hypixel is **not responsible** for anything that occurs there.
-   **Phishing Invites:** A highly common scam is a DM containing a Discord invite that **appears** to be for an official or popular server. These often use fake logos and names. **Always verify the source.** Discord has an excellent guide on [identifying and avoiding phishing attempts](https://discord.com/safety/protecting-users-from-scams-on-discord).
-   **How to Report:** Suspect a malicious Discord user or server? Report them directly to Discord via their [Trust & Safety team](https://dis.gd/report).
---
### 1.3 The Mods Landscape: Allowed vs. Dangerous

Mods can enhance gameplay, but the wrong one can end it permanently.

-   **The Golden Rule:** If a modification is **not explicitly listed** on Hypixel's **[Allowed Modifications Guide](https://hypixel.net/allowed-mods)**, you use it at your own **extreme risk**.
-   **The "Free Mod" Trap:** Be wary of anyone offering "exclusive," "free," or paid mods for free. This is a classic delivery method for malware.
-   **YouTube Caution:** Videos showcasing "OP" or "undetectable" hacks/automation often link to malicious files in the description. **Do not download them.**
-   **Specific Malware Threats:**
    -   **RAT (Remote Access Trojan):** Grants the attacker full control over your computer, allowing them to access files, webcams, and keylogs.
    -   **Session ID / Token Stealer:** Can hijack your Minecraft, Discord, or other logged-in accounts **without needing your password**, leading to immediate account theft.
---
### 1.4 Tools & resources

#### **Someone sent you a mod, is it safe?**

Use these tools to inspect suspicious links, files, or mods before downloading or running anything:

| Link | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [IsThisARAT](https://isthisarat.com/) | Quickly check whether a sample or behavior matches known RAT indicators. |
| [RatRater2](https://ktibow.github.io/RatRater2/) | Community tool and dataset for RAT identification and classification. |
| [Sky Coflnet Mod List (scroll down)](https://sky.coflnet.com/mod) | By the developer of COFL mod. |

::: info Note
Always scan any downloaded executable or mod before running it, and never bypass Hypixel's allowed-mod rules for the sake of convenience.
:::

---

#### **Do you suspect you session ID has been stolen?**


If you suspect someone has stolen your session ID or gained unauthorized access to your Minecraft/Hypixel account and you want to protect your ingame progression, follow these steps order.

::: details **STEP 1: Secure Your Microsoft/Xbox Account (Most Important)**

1.  **Go to your Microsoft account security page:** https://account.microsoft.com/security
2.  **Change your password immediately.** Make it strong and unique (never used before).
3.  **Sign out of all devices.** Look for the option that says "Sign out everywhere" or "Sign out of all devices." This immediately invalidates all active login sessions, including stolen session IDs.
4.  **Review recent activity.** Check the "Recent activity" page for any sign-ins you don't recognize.
:::
::: details STEP 2: Adjust Xbox Privacy Settings (Temporary Lockdown)

1.  **Navigate to Xbox privacy settings:** https://www.xbox.com/en-US/user/settings/privacy-and-safety
2.  Select `Xbox and Windows 10 devices Online Safety`
2.  **Set `You can join cross-network play` to BLOCK.**
3.  **Set `You can join multiplayer games` to BLOCK.**

These settings will prevent you from playing online games too. This is a temporary measure to stop the attacker. Once you've fully secured your account (Step 3 & 4), you can safely change these settings back to "Allow."
:::


## Part 2: Hypixel SkyBlock-Specific

SkyBlock's cooperative and persistent nature introduces unique risks tied to your profile and island.

### 2.1 Co-Op & Profile Security: Trust is Everything

Inviting a player to your SkyBlock Island is the digital equivalent of giving them a key to your house and bank vault.

-   **Irreversible Access:** Co-op members have **full access** to your island, chests, bank, and all collectibles. A malicious co-op can strip an island clean in minutes.
-   **The Invitation Scam:** Scammers may befriend you or offer "help" with the sole goal of being invited to your island to steal. **Only co-op with people you know and trust in real life or have trusted for a very long time.**
-   **Shared Responsibility & Wipes:** As the profile owner, **you are responsible for the actions of your co-op members**. If they cheat, abuse bugs, or engage in coin trading, **your entire profile is subject to punishment and wipe**. Your voluntary choice to invite them carries this inherent risk.
-   **Profile Recovery:** Hypixel support **does not** restore items or coins lost due to a co-op member's theft. This is considered a voluntary sharing of access.
---
### 2.2 SkyBlock-Specific Scams

-   **"Trust Trades" / Middleman Scams:** Any trade outside the official Soulbound trade menu or Bazaar carries risk. Do not drop items for someone to "transfer" or use an unverified "middleman."
-   **Auction Scams:** Misleading auction names (e.g., selling a "Hyperion" that's actually a renamed piece of paper) prey on inattentive buyers. **Always double-check the item lore and auction details before bidding.**
-   **Black Market Services:** Any site or user offering SkyBlock coins, items, or "account boosting" for real money is violating Terms of Service. Using them risks a **permanent ban and profile wipe**, and often involves you giving your login details directly to a thief.

---

*This information index expands upon official Hypixel guidelines to serve as a living document for player security. Always refer to the official [Hypixel Rules](https://hypixel.net/rules) and [Support](https://support.hypixel.net) for the most current policies.*

Commit message:

Update safety guide metadata and descriptions
Changed the title and description fields in docs/safety.md to better reflect the document's focus on user safety within Hypixel. Added a customDescription field for improved metadata clarity.

docs/safety.md, after:

---
title: Safety Guide
description: Guide to help users protect themselves from threat within Hypixel.
customDescription: Guide to help users protect themselves from threat within Hypixel.
---

This guide explores the how you (yes, you!) can use to protect yourself from threats and malware and have a safe experience on hypixel!


## Part 1: Hypixel network
These threats are not limited to a single gamemode but network-wide considerations every hypixel player should understand.

### 1.1 Third-Party Links

A primary attack source is through malicious links shared in chat or Discord.

-   **The "Why":** Malicious actors share links to:
    -   **Phish** for your login credentials or personal data.
    -   **Distribute malware** (viruses, keyloggers, RATs) disguised as "free mods" or "giveaway sites."
    -   **Advertise** black-market services (like coin selling) which are against Hypixel's rules.
::: tip **Hypixel's Protective Filter**
 To protect users, Hypixel automatically blocks most external links in public and private chat. If a user is intentionally **bypassing this filter** (using spaces, special characters, or misleading text), it is a massive red flag and a direct violation of the rules. Use `/report` immediately.
:::
---

### 1.2 The Discord Minefield

Discord is a central part of the community but is also riddled with scams.

-   **Unofficial Servers:** Any Discord server outside the **official Hypixel Discord** is an unofficial, third-party service. Hypixel is **not responsible** for anything that occurs there.
-   **Phishing Invites:** A highly common scam is a DM containing a Discord invite that **appears** to be for an official or popular server. These often use fake logos and names. **Always verify the source.** Discord has an excellent guide on [identifying and avoiding phishing attempts](https://discord.com/safety/protecting-users-from-scams-on-discord).
-   **How to Report:** Suspect a malicious Discord user or server? Report them directly to Discord via their [Trust & Safety team](https://dis.gd/report).
---
### 1.3 The Mods Landscape: Allowed vs. Dangerous

Mods can enhance gameplay, but the wrong one can end it permanently.

-   **The Golden Rule:** If a modification is **not explicitly listed** on Hypixel's **[Allowed Modifications Guide](https://hypixel.net/allowed-mods)**, you use it at your own **extreme risk**.
-   **The "Free Mod" Trap:** Be wary of anyone offering "exclusive," "free," or paid mods for free. This is a classic delivery method for malware.
-   **YouTube Caution:** Videos showcasing "OP" or "undetectable" hacks/automation often link to malicious files in the description. **Do not download them.**
-   **Specific Malware Threats:**
    -   **RAT (Remote Access Trojan):** Grants the attacker full control over your computer, allowing them to access files, webcams, and keylogs.
    -   **Session ID / Token Stealer:** Can hijack your Minecraft, Discord, or other logged-in accounts **without needing your password**, leading to immediate account theft.
---
### 1.4 Tools & resources

#### **Someone sent you a mod, is it safe?**

Use these tools to inspect suspicious links, files, or mods before downloading or running anything:

| Link | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [IsThisARAT](https://isthisarat.com/) | Quickly check whether a sample or behavior matches known RAT indicators. |
| [RatRater2](https://ktibow.github.io/RatRater2/) | Community tool and dataset for RAT identification and classification. |
| [Sky Coflnet Mod List (scroll down)](https://sky.coflnet.com/mod) | By the developer of COFL mod. |

::: info Note
Always scan any downloaded executable or mod before running it, and never bypass Hypixel's allowed-mod rules for the sake of convenience.
:::

---

#### **Do you suspect you session ID has been stolen?**


If you suspect someone has stolen your session ID or gained unauthorized access to your Minecraft/Hypixel account and you want to protect your ingame progression, follow these steps order.

::: details **STEP 1: Secure Your Microsoft/Xbox Account (Most Important)**

1.  **Go to your Microsoft account security page:** https://account.microsoft.com/security
2.  **Change your password immediately.** Make it strong and unique (never used before).
3.  **Sign out of all devices.** Look for the option that says "Sign out everywhere" or "Sign out of all devices." This immediately invalidates all active login sessions, including stolen session IDs.
4.  **Review recent activity.** Check the "Recent activity" page for any sign-ins you don't recognize.
:::
::: details STEP 2: Adjust Xbox Privacy Settings (Temporary Lockdown)

1.  **Navigate to Xbox privacy settings:** https://www.xbox.com/en-US/user/settings/privacy-and-safety
2.  Select `Xbox and Windows 10 devices Online Safety`
2.  **Set `You can join cross-network play` to BLOCK.**
3.  **Set `You can join multiplayer games` to BLOCK.**

These settings will prevent you from playing online games too. This is a temporary measure to stop the attacker. Once you've fully secured your account (Step 3 & 4), you can safely change these settings back to "Allow."
:::


## Part 2: Hypixel SkyBlock-Specific

SkyBlock's cooperative and persistent nature introduces unique risks tied to your profile and island.

### 2.1 Co-Op & Profile Security: Trust is Everything

Inviting a player to your SkyBlock Island is the digital equivalent of giving them a key to your house and bank vault.

-   **Irreversible Access:** Co-op members have **full access** to your island, chests, bank, and all collectibles. A malicious co-op can strip an island clean in minutes.
-   **The Invitation Scam:** Scammers may befriend you or offer "help" with the sole goal of being invited to your island to steal. **Only co-op with people you know and trust in real life or have trusted for a very long time.**
-   **Shared Responsibility & Wipes:** As the profile owner, **you are responsible for the actions of your co-op members**. If they cheat, abuse bugs, or engage in coin trading, **your entire profile is subject to punishment and wipe**. Your voluntary choice to invite them carries this inherent risk.
-   **Profile Recovery:** Hypixel support **does not** restore items or coins lost due to a co-op member's theft. This is considered a voluntary sharing of access.
---
### 2.2 SkyBlock-Specific Scams

-   **"Trust Trades" / Middleman Scams:** Any trade outside the official Soulbound trade menu or Bazaar carries risk. Do not drop items for someone to "transfer" or use an unverified "middleman."
-   **Auction Scams:** Misleading auction names (e.g., selling a "Hyperion" that's actually a renamed piece of paper) prey on inattentive buyers. **Always double-check the item lore and auction details before bidding.**
-   **Black Market Services:** Any site or user offering SkyBlock coins, items, or "account boosting" for real money is violating Terms of Service. Using them risks a **permanent ban and profile wipe**, and often involves you giving your login details directly to a thief.

---

*This information index expands upon official Hypixel guidelines to serve as a living document for player security. Always refer to the official [Hypixel Rules](https://hypixel.net/rules) and [Support](https://support.hypixel.net) for the most current policies.*
